Sen. Cory Booker breaks Senate record with marathon 24-hour speech protesting Trump and Musk


New Jersey Democratic Sen. Cory Booker broke a record Tuesday evening, speaking for more than 24 hours in a marathon speech protesting the national "crisis" he said President Donald Trump and Elon Musk had created.
Booker's speech, which began Monday evening, continued for a total of 25 hours and 4 minutes, surpassing the previous record set by Sen. Strom Thurmond, who filibustered the Civil Rights Act of 1957 for 24 hours and 18 minutes.
Shortly before he broke Thurmond's record, as the Senate gallery above the chamber began filling with onlookers and staffers who had gathered to witness the historic event, Booker spoke about his relationship with Georgia Rep. John Lewis, the longtime lawmaker and icon of the civil rights movement who died in 2020.
"John Lewis would say something; he would do something," Booker said in an impassioned voice that was beginning to show signs of strain. "He wouldn't treat this moral moment as if it were normal."
He added, "This is our moral moment. This is when the most precious ideas of our country are being tested."
At approximately 7:20 p.m. Tuesday, Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer briefly interrupted Booker to inform him he had broken the record.
"Do you know how proud this caucus is of you? Do you know how proud America is of you?" Schumer asked.
The chamber erupted in applause. Booker did not immediately end his speech, but continued speaking.
"From all Americans, this is a moral moment. It's not left or right -- it's right or wrong," Booker said after continuing his speech and touching on everything from cuts to federal programs initiated by Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency to the controversy surrounding Trump administration officials' use of the Signal messaging app.
Booker wrapped up his speech and finally yielded the floor to another enthusiastic round of applause at 8:05 p.m. ET.
At the beginning of the marathon speech on Monday evening, Booker said he rose "with the intention of disrupting the normal business" of the chamber because he said he believes the country is in "crisis" due to the actions of the White House since Trump started his second term.
"I rise tonight because I believe sincerely that our country is in crisis, and I believe that not in a partisan sense, because so many of the people that have been reaching out to my office in pain, in fear, having their lives upended -- so many of them identify themselves as Republicans," Booker said.
"In just 71 days, the president of the United States has inflicted so much harm on Americans' safety, financial stability, the core foundations of our democracy and even our aspirations as a people [for] our highest offices, a sense of common decency," Booker said. "These are not normal times in America. And they should not be treated as such."
Over 24 hours hour, Booker's comments addressed a wide range of topics, including the Russia-Ukraine war, USAID relief in foreign countries, concerns about cuts to Medicaid and slashes to Social Security offices, among other issues.
In addition to Thurmond's civil rights era filibuster, Booker's also bested two more recent marathon Senate floor talks. In 2013, Republican Sen. Ted Cruz spoke for 21 hours advocating for the defunding of Obamacare and, in 2016, Democratic Sen. Chris Murphy spoke for 15 hours pressing for action on gun violence.
For the entirety of his marathon talk-a-thon, Booker occupied the small square of space surrounding his desk.
Once the speech began, he did not sit down. He did not eat. On his desk, two glasses of water had been refilled at various points. On occasion, he leaned on the lectern, wiped his face with a handkerchief. But by the time the record was broken, Booker, who was wearing a black suit, had still not loosened his tie.


"I've got fuel in the tank man," Booker said during the 15-hour mark on Tuesday morning.
He also read aloud letters that he said were from constituents and quoted speeches from figures such as the late Sen. John Lewis, who famously advocated for "good trouble" in the fight for justice and equality.


As long Booker held the floor, the Senate has not been able to conduct other business unless he temporarily yields.
He has been joined by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and Democratic Sens. Lisa Blunt Rochester of Delaware, Chris Murphy of Connecticut, Andy Kim of New Jersey, Peter Welch of Vermont, Dick Durbin of Illinois, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Chris Coons of Delaware, Mark Warner of Virginia, Ed Markey of Massachusetts, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and some others.
Booker has entertained questions from the lawmakers, allowing him short breaks in speaking, but he's been careful to note that he's "retaining the floor" so as not to break his continuous hold according to Senate procedural rules. He's had to remain standing during these "question" periods.